## Definition:
The MD2 is a Message-Digest Algorithm. It is a cryptographic hash function developed by Ronald Rivest in 1989. It is optimized for 8-bit computers. The MD2 algorithm is used in public key infrastructures as part of certificates generated with MD2 and RSA. From 2014, this algorithm is now not considered as a secure algorithm.

To calculate cryptographic hashing value in Java, MessageDigest Class is used, under the package java.security.

What is MD5?

The MD5 (message-digest algorithm) hashing algorithm is a one-way cryptographic function that accepts a message of any length as input and returns as output a fixed-length digest value to be used for authenticating the original message.

The MD5 hash function was originally designed for use as a secure cryptographic hash algorithm for authenticating digital signatures. But MD5 has been deprecated for uses other than as a noncryptographic checksum to verify data integrity and detect unintentional data corruption.
What is MD5 used for?

Although originally designed as a cryptographic message authentication code algorithm for use on the internet, MD5 hashing is no longer considered reliable for use as a cryptographic checksum because security experts have demonstrated techniques capable of easily producing MD5 collisions on commercial off-the-shelf computers. An encryption collision means two files have the same hash. Hash functions are used for message security, password security, computer forensics and cryptocurrency.

Message-digest algorithm characteristics

Message digests, also known as hash functions, are one-way functions; they accept a message of any size as input and produce as output a fixed-length message digest.

MD5 is the third message-digest algorithm Rivest created. MD2, MD4 and MD5 have similar structures, but MD2 was optimized for 8-bit machines, in comparison with the two later algorithms, which are designed for 32-bit machines. The MD5 algorithm is an extension of MD4, which the critical review found to be fast but potentially insecure. In comparison, MD5 is not quite as fast as the MD4 algorithm, but offered much more assurance of data security.